# hotel-reservation-sys
Hotel Reservation System using Java GUI through Swing Functions and WindowsBuilder.

# Introduction to the Project
This program aims to facilitate customers with easy access to a reservation system, cost estimator and evaluator for the Northwoods Hotel Reservations Company, Inc. that offer multiple hotel locations, room types, nights, discounts and selections to their customers.
This program is designed to be extremely straight forward and user friendly, allowing maximum customer support, compatibility and accessibility to make the customer experience as seamless as possible. To ensure a simple, basic program- Java GUI software was used. The IDE used was Eclipse with aid of an Eclipse plugin, WindowBuilder, that allows maximum GUI customization through JFrame, JPanels and Swing Utilities. 
In the coming age, the integration of Information Technology systems in commercial sectors such as hotel industries is extremely important. Introducing technology that assists reservations, database management or general control over customer data and facilities for customer convenience allows hotels to compete in terms of the service they provide. It improves the efficiency of the business and boosts advertisement. A lot of focus on these services are through the internet. In a report from 2000,   4% of reservations were channeled through the Internet but in only a year, it was projected to grow to 11%. CRS (Central Reservation Systems) were projected to grow from 21 to 22%. In 2017, the distribution of adults in the United States by their preference of hotel booking online or offline was surveyed. The results showed that 88% preferred online than offline. 
As a result, it is extremely important to cater to the demand of technology in competition of the hotel industry and make sure that the software is as user-friendly as possible. To personally tackle this requirement, I designed my program accordingly. I made sure the program was designed sequentially and was clearly formatted with directions/instructions for users to follow, easy components to enter/select/input data that is required from the user. The program begins with a login (to enter username, which is displayed to confirm the user is logged in and their name is stored), then gives the user a drop-down menu to choose from a selection of hotels the Northwood Reservation System offers. A text-field is given to input the date of your reservation, after which another drop-down menu allows you to easily choose the type of room you wish to book. A text-field allows you to enter the number of nights you wish to book the room for and lastly, a drop-down menu is provided to choose the type of discount. These drop down boxes are JComboBox utilities and information is taken and applied accordingly in the system. By pressing the “See Reservation Details and Price” button, the program is able to calculate and display all the reservation details as well as the price per room, the total price and the final price after the selected discount is selected. It gives the user an accurate estimate of rates, pricing and offers provided by the hotel to maximize their benefits in terms of booking.

